Route Alert
===========

When transiting around the city, you want to know about potential delays
that may affect your trip. Today, there’s no good way to do this.

You might check Twitter or rely on word-of-mouth, but this is
unstructured, noisy, and unreliable. If you subscribe to alerts for the
entire city, you’ll be inundated with too much irrelevant information.

For re-route/sf, we created Route Alert, an app that enables riders to
subscribe to notifications on and around their route.

We ensure that the alerts are relevant with individual matching by
location and time. You’ll only receive alerts that involve areas on or
near your route, with effective dates and times that overlap with your
trip.

While many kinds of notifications could work with the system, we came up
with three main categories:

1) Scheduled Delays

This includes the updates and alerts that SFMTA provides on their
website, which typically involves events like Street Fairs, and
regularly or pre-scheduled maintenance or construction.

Transit Updates from SFMTA: http://www.sfmta.com/cms/asystem/alerts.php

In some cases, for these scheduled closures, Muni operates reroutes. By
receiving these alerts about your trip, you can plan around them.

2) Unexpected Events

Unexpected events includes accidents, irregular traffic, and crimes.
When the data becomes available, we would integrate with alerts provided
by the transit authorities.

Meanwhile, we will also enable crowdsourced event reports. We can
integrate Waze incident reports, and notify only the commuters who may
be affected by the incident. While Waze focuses on driving directions,
we’ll notify public transit riders to incidents that may affect them. In
addition to traffic, transit riders may also want to know about
excessive crowds.

If you’re traveling through a potentially dangerous area, such as one
with a recent crime, we’ll alert you. This enables you to be safer by
taking extra precautions, staying alert, or even modifying your route.

If there’s police activity on or near your route, you can modify your
route to stay out of the way of officers at work.

With real-time notifications about unexpected events, you can easily
take a detour, and minimize the disruption to your trip.

3) Attractions

For tourists, sightseers, travelers, and other explorers, we provide
notifications about landmarks, attractions, and events along your route.

Scenarios
=========

SoMa to Mission

I have a lot of friends in mission so I go out there quite a bit.
Sometimes there can be maintenance on the BART or MUNI that would delay
my trip or require me to take an alternative route.

I open up the mobile web app, select my end points and my MUNI transit
line, select when I would like to receive notifications, and enter my
phone number.

Any news related to this transit line would be pushed to my phone as an
SMS!


Daily commute I catch the same train to work all the time and usually
just show up to catch whatever train is available. But sometimes, there
is a large failure and all the trains are slow or out, and I don’t find
out until I get to the station. So most days I won’t actively open any
app. But if I had a Route Alert app installed, I would get an alert when
there is a major disruption so I can plan ahead and leave work a bit
earlier and catch a different bus instead.

Weekend trip On the weekends, my gf and I sometimes go downtown from 7th
Ave, which requires catching the bus to Forest Hill Station and then a
train to Powell. Usually, we just check nextmuni for the bus before
leaving, and then the train is usually there in 5-10 minutes so we don’t
check NextMuni. We can improve this nextmuni page in two ways: First,
show more information on the nextmuni page, and second, show any
announcements relevant for both lines, not just the one.

Thank you!